Let's get started working on our sign up route handler.
So we're going to make sure first that a user can sign up to our application and then we'll worry about
allowing them to sign in, sign out and fetch the current user.
So to get started, I'm going to find my sign up router.
So here it is right here.
We've got the appropriate method and the appropriate route on there.
So instead of here, we need to figure out exactly how we sign up a user.
Well, the first thing we probably need to think about is the information that needs to be provided
to this route.
Handler In this diagram, I said that we need to receive some kind of email and password on the incoming
request or more specifically, inside the body of the request.
So let's try to just pull that information out.
Back inside the sign up route.
Handler I'm going to try and pull email and password out of rec dot body like so.
Now right away.
I want you to just understand that we've kind of made a really big assumption here.
We are assuming 100% that there's going to be an email and password on the body.
We're not maybe we're not 100% assuming that just yet.
But let's imagine that we just took that information and then used it to create some new user right
here.
So if we said something like make a user of some kind with an email and password.
Who knows what user actually looks like?
That's just some imaginary code, but we're kind of assuming that email and password are actually defined
and they actually contain an email and a password.
It is entirely possible that a user might send us some kind of malicious request or even just a faulty
request, one that doesn't include an email or a password.
So I don't want to build anything in this application, as I've mentioned many times, taking that many
shortcuts.
I want to make sure that a lot of the stuff is as production as possible.
So I don't really want to have any code that's just going to assume that a user is providing an email
and password as expected.
Instead, I want to put in some validation attempt inside of here.
I want to make sure that email and password are actually defined.
We could do that by adding in a little check and saying if there is no email or if type of email is
not equal to a string.
So we can do a resident status of.
Or 100.
That should be status like so and a send of maybe provide a valid email or something like that.
Naturally, writing out the code you see right here would get very tedious very quickly.
So rather than doing any kind of manual validation, we're going to rely upon an outside library instead.
Let me show you the library we're going to use.
At my terminal.
I'm going to navigate over to KPMG's.
Once here, I'm going to do a search for express dash validator.
Well, then find the first result.
And then once here I'm going to find the link to the documentation for this module.
If you've never used Express Validator before, it's a very simple little module that's going to make
sure that a user provides the appropriate information on incoming requests.
It's going to do some automatic validation of this information.
It can also sanitize that information as well.
Validation is the process of making sure that information has the correct structure and form, whereas
sanitization is going to change that information in some way.
So it might try to remove certain types of characters or stuff like that.
If you want to, you can read through the documentation of Express Validator.
But rather than going through all that, I'm just going to show you directly how to use it.
Naturally, the first thing we have to do is install it into our project using NPM.
So we're going to go back over to our terminal.
I'm going to change into my office directory.
And then inside of here, we're going to do an NPM install.
Of Express dash validator like.
So let that do its thing.
Now, when we install that module, that of course makes a change to our package JSON file, we are
now listing out express validator as a dependency to our project.
Scaffold is watching all the files inside of our project directory.
And so as soon as it sees a change to a non synced file in our package, that JSON file is not synced.
It's going to decide to automatically rebuild our image and then update the associated deployment.
So as soon as I ran that command, you'll see that scaffold detected the change and decided to rebuild
the image.
After the image was built, scaffold then updated our deployment and we can now see the updated pod
right here.
And naturally, the pod itself is emitting the exact same logs as before.
We did not make a change to the actual login information, but the thing definitely did restart.
So now we should have express validator inside of our project.
So to use it, I'm going to go back over to my signup file.
At the very top we are going to import body from express dash validator.
There's a couple of different ways to use Express Validator.
We're going to be using this body thing.
This is a function that's going to check the body of the incoming request.
We can also use Express Validator to explicitly check for, say, parameters like let's say if we had
an ID parameter on here, for some reason we could use express validator to do some validation around
that ID parameter.
It can also handle validation of query strings as well.
But in this case, we don't want to do a validation of parameters or query strings.
We want to do a validation of the body of the request.
To make use of this body thing.
We're going to apply it as a middleware.
So right before our callback function right there.
I'm going to add in a comma.
I'll then put in an array.
And we're going to list out our validation steps inside of this array.
So I'm going to put inside of your body look for the email property.
So this means in the body of the incoming request, look for the email property.
We're then going to chain on a couple of checks to run on that property.
So a chain on dot is email.
This is a validation function that's built directly into express validator or technically a dependent
package of it.
That's going to make sure that this email thing has the structure of an email.
We can then optionally append on a message.
If there is something wrong with the email property, we can do that by writing out dot with message
and we could say something like Email must be valid.
Now, if anything is wrong with this email, if it doesn't have the structure of an email or if no email
is provided at all, then we're going to automatically give ourselves or produce some kind of error
message that's going to say Email must be provided and it will be up to you and I to figure out how
to send that back over to the user.
So now we can do the same thing for the password that we expect to receive in this thing as well.
Just as a reminder, we're expected to receive an email and a password.
Soldier.
Your body password.
And then for this, we will do a trim.
That is a sanitization step that's going to make sure that there are no leading or trailing spaces on
the password.
I'll then make sure that the length of this thing is at least four and at most 20.
And then I'll attach a message in case the password is not present or doesn't have that supplied length.
We'll say something like Password must be between four and 20 characters.
Like so.
And that's it.
That's how we add in some validation.
Well, almost how we added in stuff.
Do one last little step.
You'll notice that as soon as I added in that array for these two middle wears by the way we got some
errors coming out of rec and reds right here.
So TypeScript is getting a little bit angry.
It's telling us that it doesn't know what the type of rec is or rez.
We can fix that up by adding in some type annotations to those two arguments.
To do so we'll go back up to the top.
I'm going to find where we import Express.
And I'm going to import in the types of request and response and then I will annotate rec and rez with
those two types that will say req is going to be of type request and rez will be of type response and
then those errors go away.
Okay.
Well, we definitely added in some code right here to make sure that the user is providing email and
a password.
But at no point in time do we appear to actually be consuming this information.
In other words, we never seem to take any actual errors that might be coming out of this validation
step and sending them back to the user.
So let's figure out how we do that in the next video.